But we are talking here 
about -- we're talking here about campaign 
contributions. Isn't it illegal for a candidate to take 
campaign contributions and use it to buy a Maserati?

Well, I don't see how that 
really gets to the point.

What troubles me about your 
-- what troubles me about your argument, General 
Verrilli, and about the district court's opinion is that 
what I see are wild hypotheticals that are not obviously 
plausible or -- and lack, certainly lack any empirical 
support.

Now, how -- how realistic is 
that? How realistic is it that all of the State party 
committees, for example, are going to get money and 
they're all going to transfer it to one candidate? For 
49 of them, it's going to be a candidate who is not in 
their own State. And there are virtually no instances 
of State party committees contributing to candidates 
from another State.

Well, I don't understand 
that -­

Unless the money is 
transferred to -- you have to get it from the person who 
wants to corrupt to the person who is going to be 
corrupted. And unless the money can make it from A to 
B, I don't see where the quid pro quo argument is.

I understand -­

These -- these aggregate 
limits might not all stand or fall together. Let -­
just take this example, if you can just take a minute 
and walk me through this step by step.
 You have somebody who wants to corrupt a 
member of the House, and this person's strategy is to 
make contributions to multiple House candidates with the 
hope, the expectation, the plan that those candidates 
are going to transfer -- transfer the money to the -­
the member that this person wants to corrupt.
 Now, how is that person going to accomplish 
that given the earmarking regulations, and -- and the 
limits on how much one member can contribute to another?

Well, if you're -- I mean, if you're not going to defend 
the application of the aggregate limits in that situation, 
doesn't it follow that, as applied to that situation, these 
are -- these are unconstitutional?

Well, then just explain to 
me how it's going to be done. The person gives to 
member A with the hope that member A is going to give it 
to member B. If the person even implies, when making 
the contribution to A, that person wants it to go to B, 
that's earmarked. So how is this going to be done?

Well, they are making -­
they are making the argument that there are -- that the 
regulations that already exist about transfers from one 
entity to another prevent a lot of what you're 
complaining -- what you're -- what you are worried 
about. But if they are not sufficient, they could be 
bolstered. The aggregate limits are a very blunt way of 
trying to get out -- get at the problem that you are -­
that you are worried about. That's their argument.
 What -- are -- is that wrong? There is 
nothing more that could be done to prevent transfers 
from joint fundraising committees or from one member to 
another or from State parties to candidates?

I just don't understand 
that. You mean at the time when the person sends the 
money to this hypothetical joint fundraising committee
there is a corruption problem immediately, even though 
-- what if they just took the money and they burned it? 
That would be a corruption problem there?

When does the corruption -­
yes. When does the corruption occur? It occurs when 
it's transferred to -- to the person who has power and 
want -- and they want to corrupt.

When does the corruption -­
yes. When does the corruption occur? It occurs when 
it's transferred to -- to the person who has power and 
want -- and they want to corrupt.
