And that does not -- that 
does not evoke any gratitude on the part of the people? 
I mean, if gratitude is corruption, you know, don't 
those independent expenditures evoke gratitude? And 
is -- is not the evil of big money -- 3.2 million, an 
individual can give that to an independent PAC and spend 
it, right?

It's not that we're 
stopping people from spending big money on politics.

Wait. That -- that -­

That line eliminates some 
of the arguments that have been made here, which are 
arguments against big money in politics. There -- big 
money can be in politics. The thing is you can't give 
it to the Republican Party or the Democratic Party, but 
you can start your own PAC. That's perfectly good. I'm 
not sure that that's a benefit to our political system.

What if Boeing does it? 
mean, you know -­

You think no problem?

That's fine. They're 
regulated. That's the law, but the question says -­
what the question is directed at, given that that's the 
law, isn't the consequence of -- of this particular 
provision to sap the vitality of political parties and 
to encourage -- what should I say -- you know, drive-by 
PACs for each election? Isn't that the consequence?

I think we do.

You say -- you say it's 
$3.5 million. If you assume somebody that gives the 
maximum to every possible candidate and party he can 
contribute to throughout the United States, 3.5 million. 
Just to put that in perspective, how much money is spent 
by political parties and PACs in all elections 
throughout the country -­

in one election cycle?

Do you have any idea much?

1.5 billion. 

And what about PACs?

Oh, but that was a lot in 
the last few elections, wasn't it?

And -- and what about 
newspapers that -- that spend a lot of money in 
endorsing candidates and promoting their candidacy. 
suppose, you know, you -- you have to put in that money, 
too. That is money that is directed to political 
speech.

When you add all that -- add -- when you add 
all that up, I don't think 3.5 million is a heck of a 
lot of money -­

spread throughout the 
country.

Oh, but that was a lot in 
the last few elections, wasn't it?

And -- and what about 
newspapers that -- that spend a lot of money in 
endorsing candidates and promoting their candidacy. 
suppose, you know, you -- you have to put in that money, 
too. That is money that is directed to political 
speech.

spread throughout the 
country.

General Verrilli, it seems 
to me -- it seems to me fanciful to think that the sense 
of gratitude that an individual Senator or Congressman 
is going to feel because of a substantial contribution 
to the Republican National Committee or Democratic 
National Committee is any greater than the sense of 
gratitude that that Senator or Congressman will feel to 
a PAC which is spending enormous amount of money in his 
district or in his State for his election.
 I mean, it seems to me the latter is much 
more identifiable, and there is nothing in the law that 
excludes that. So apparently that's not too much of a 
risk.

It is what it is, though.
